README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="voice-to-obsidian-icon.png" alt="Voice to Obsidian Icon" width="200"/>

  # 🎙️ Voice-to-Obsidian with Claude AI

  An intelligent system to transform voice notes into structured notes in Obsidian, using SuperWhisper for dictation and Claude Code for automatic organization.
</div>

## ✨ What It Does

This system allows you to:
- **Dictate voice notes** with SuperWhisper
- **Automatically organize** content based on context
- **Manage tasks, journal entries, projects** without thinking about where to put things
- **Sync meetings** from macOS Calendar

Claude analyzes the dictated content and automatically catalogs it in the right location in your Obsidian vault.

## 🎯 Usage Examples

**You say:** "I need to call Mark by Friday"
→ Claude adds the task to today's note with a due date

**You say:** "Today I felt very productive"
→ Claude adds the note to today's journal

**You say:** "Idea for project X: use an interactive dashboard"
→ Claude adds the idea to the project file

**You say:** "Update meetings"
→ Claude reads the calendar and creates today's meeting list

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **macOS** (for Calendar integration via AppleScript)
- **[Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/)** - Markdown notes editor
- **[SuperWhisper](https://superwhisper.com/)** - Local voice transcription
- **[Claude Code](https://claude.ai/download)** - Claude CLI for automation

Important: Install and enable these Obsidian community plugins: Tasks, Templater, Dataview (enable javascript) 

## 🚀 Installation

### 1. Obsidian Setup

```bash
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/gmirabella/voice-to-obsidian-ai

# Or download and copy files to your Obsidian vault
```

**Required folder structure:**
```
VaultObsidian/
├── Daily Journal/     # Daily notes (YYYY-MM-DD.md)
├── Projects/          # Project files
├── Work/              # Work notes
├── Health/            # Health notes (optional)
├── Templates/         # Note templates
└── CLAUDE.md          # Instructions for Claude (IMPORTANT!)
```

### 2. SuperWhisper Setup

1. Download and install [SuperWhisper](https://superwhisper.com/)
2. Configure the shortcut (recommended: `Cmd+Shift+Space`)
3. **Set the action:** Instead of "Type", select "Copy to clipboard"
4. **Configure post-recording command:**
   - Go to Preferences → Commands
   - Add a command that executes:
   ```bash
   echo "$(pbpaste)" | /usr/local/bin/claude-code ask "$(cat)"
   ```
   - Or use a helper script (see below)

### 3. Claude Code Setup

```bash
# Install Claude Code
brew install claude-code

# Configure Claude in the vault
cd /path/to/VaultObsidian

# Verify that the CLAUDE.md file is present
# This file contains the instructions for Claude
```

**Important:** The `CLAUDE.md` file in the vault root contains all cataloging rules. Claude automatically reads it when working in the vault.

### 4. Helper Script (Optional but Recommended)

Create a script to simplify SuperWhisper + Claude integration:

```bash
# Create the file ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh
mkdir -p ~/bin
cat > ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh << 'EOF'
#!/bin/bash
# Script to send SuperWhisper transcriptions to Claude

VAULT_PATH="$HOME/Documents/Obsidian Vault"
TRANSCRIPTION="$1"

# If no text is passed, read from clipboard
if [ -z "$TRANSCRIPTION" ]; then
    TRANSCRIPTION=$(pbpaste)
fi

# Go to vault and send to Claude
cd "$VAULT_PATH"
echo "$TRANSCRIPTION" | claude code

# Optional: notification
osascript -e 'display notification "Note added to Obsidian" with title "Claude"'
EOF

chmod +x ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh
```

Configure SuperWhisper to run this script after each transcription.

## 📖 How It Works

### Automatic Cataloging Rules

Claude analyzes the dictated content and applies these rules:

#### 🔲 Tasks
**Trigger:** "need to", "task", "to do", "remind me", "by", "due", "deadline"

**Action:** Adds task to today's note in `Daily Journal/YYYY-MM-DD.md`

**Format:** `- [ ] description 📅 YYYY-MM-DD`

#### 📔 Journal / Thoughts
**Trigger:** "today I", "I feel", "reflection", "thought", "journal", "diary"

**Action:** Adds to the Notes section of the day

#### 📁 Projects
**Trigger:** "project", "idea for", "for the project"

**Action:** Creates/updates file in `Projects/ProjectName.md`

**Note:** Tasks related to projects still go in the Daily Journal (not duplicated)

#### 📝 General Notes
**Trigger:** Everything else

**Action:** Adds to the current day's Notes

### Special Command: Meetings

When you say **"update meetings"**, Claude:
1. Reads the macOS Calendar
2. Extracts all today's meetings
3. Creates/updates the `Meetings Today.md` file

## 🎨 Daily Note Template

Daily notes follow this format:

```markdown
# YYYY-MM-DD

## Task
- [ ] Task to complete 📅 YYYY-MM-DD

## Meetings
- HH:MM | Meeting name

## Note
- Various annotations
- Thoughts
- Reflections

## Journal
Personal diary of the day
```

## 🔧 Customization

### Modify Cataloging Rules

Edit the `CLAUDE.md` file to change how Claude organizes notes:

```markdown
### Your New Category
If contains: "keyword1", "keyword2"
→ Action to perform
→ Specific format
```

### Add New Folders

Add folders to the vault and document in `CLAUDE.md`:

```markdown
## Vault Structure
- `Daily Journal/` - Daily notes
- `YourNewFolder/` - Description
```

### Change SuperWhisper Shortcut

Modify the shortcut in SuperWhisper → Preferences → Hotkey

## 🤝 Recommended Workflow

1. **Press `Cmd+Shift+Space`** (or your shortcut)
2. **Dictate your note**
3. **SuperWhisper transcribes** and sends to Claude
4. **Claude analyzes and catalogs** automatically
5. **Receive confirmation** of where the note was saved

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Claude doesn't respond
- Verify Claude Code is installed: `claude-code --version`
- Check you're in the vault: `cd /path/to/vault`
- Verify `CLAUDE.md` exists in the root

### SuperWhisper doesn't execute the script
- Check permissions: `chmod +x ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh`
- Verify the path in SuperWhisper Settings
- Check SuperWhisper logs

### Notes aren't cataloged correctly
- Verify folders exist (`Daily Journal/`, `Projects/`, etc.)
- Check that the `CLAUDE.md` file is updated
- Try dictating more explicitly ("task: do X" instead of "do X")

### Meetings don't update
- Verify Calendar permissions: System Settings → Privacy → Automation
- Make sure the script has calendar access

## 📝 Limitations

- **macOS only**: Calendar integration uses AppleScript
- **Language-specific**: Optimized for English triggers (but customizable)
- **Internet connection**: Claude Code requires connection to work

## 🔮 Future Ideas

- [ ] Multi-language support
- [ ] Google Calendar integration
- [ ] Customizable templates per note type
- [ ] Automatic weekly summary export
- [ ] Todoist/Things integration
- [ ] AI-powered semantic search in notes

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and share!

## 🙏 Credits

- **Obsidian** - [obsidian.md](https://obsidian.md/)
- **SuperWhisper** - [superwhisper.com](https://superwhisper.com/)
- **Claude** - [claude.ai](https://claude.ai/)

## 💬 Support

If you have questions or suggestions:
- Open an Issue on GitHub
- Contribute with a Pull Request
- Share your setup!

---

**Made with 🎙️ by Graziana**

Commit message:

Update README with important usage notes
Added important usage notes and updated language support.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="voice-to-obsidian-icon.png" alt="Voice to Obsidian Icon" width="200"/>

  # 🎙️ Voice-to-Obsidian with Claude AI

  An intelligent system to transform voice notes into structured notes in Obsidian, using SuperWhisper for dictation and Claude Code for automatic organization.
</div>

## ✨ What It Does

This system allows you to:
- **Dictate voice notes** with SuperWhisper
- **Automatically organize** content based on context
- **Manage tasks, journal entries, projects** without thinking about where to put things
- **Sync meetings** from macOS Calendar

Claude analyzes the dictated content and automatically catalogs it in the right location in your Obsidian vault.

## ⚠️ IMPORTANT
You will give Claude access and read/write permissions on this Obsidian vault. 
My advice is to use it as an experiment and test—do not insert sensitive personal or work-related important data. It's more for brainstorming and a way to keep track of ideas and tasks, habits and knowledge. 
If you want to keep everything local, you can always replace Claude with a local model and not use Superwhisper.
Also remember to keep operation confirmation enabled, because Claude could delete important things.

(Of course, if you're already uploading your blood test results to the web version of Claude, then it's fine!)

## 🎯 Usage Examples

**You say:** "I need to call Mark by Friday"
→ Claude adds the task to today's note with a due date

**You say:** "Today I felt very productive"
→ Claude adds the note to today's journal

**You say:** "Idea for project X: use an interactive dashboard"
→ Claude adds the idea to the project file

**You say:** "Update meetings"
→ Claude reads the calendar and creates today's meeting list

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **macOS** (for Calendar integration via AppleScript)
- **[Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/)** - Markdown notes editor
- **[SuperWhisper](https://superwhisper.com/)** - Local voice transcription
- **[Claude Code](https://claude.ai/download)** - Claude CLI for automation

Important: Install and enable these Obsidian community plugins: Tasks, Templater, Dataview (enable javascript) 

## 🚀 Installation

### 1. Obsidian Setup

```bash
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/gmirabella/voice-to-obsidian-ai

# Or download and copy files to your Obsidian vault
```

**Required folder structure:**
```
VaultObsidian/
├── Daily Journal/     # Daily notes (YYYY-MM-DD.md)
├── Projects/          # Project files
├── Work/              # Work notes
├── Health/            # Health notes (optional)
├── Templates/         # Note templates
└── CLAUDE.md          # Instructions for Claude (IMPORTANT!)
```

### 2. SuperWhisper Setup

1. Download and install [SuperWhisper](https://superwhisper.com/)
2. Configure the shortcut (recommended: `Cmd+Shift+Space`)
3. **Set the action:** Instead of "Type", select "Copy to clipboard"
4. **Configure post-recording command:**
   - Go to Preferences → Commands
   - Add a command that executes:
   ```bash
   echo "$(pbpaste)" | /usr/local/bin/claude-code ask "$(cat)"
   ```
   - Or use a helper script (see below)

### 3. Claude Code Setup

```bash
# Install Claude Code
brew install claude-code

# Configure Claude in the vault
cd /path/to/VaultObsidian

# Verify that the CLAUDE.md file is present
# This file contains the instructions for Claude
```

**Important:** The `CLAUDE.md` file in the vault root contains all cataloging rules. Claude automatically reads it when working in the vault.

### 4. Helper Script (Optional but Recommended)

Create a script to simplify SuperWhisper + Claude integration:

```bash
# Create the file ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh
mkdir -p ~/bin
cat > ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh << 'EOF'
#!/bin/bash
# Script to send SuperWhisper transcriptions to Claude

VAULT_PATH="$HOME/Documents/Obsidian Vault"
TRANSCRIPTION="$1"

# If no text is passed, read from clipboard
if [ -z "$TRANSCRIPTION" ]; then
    TRANSCRIPTION=$(pbpaste)
fi

# Go to vault and send to Claude
cd "$VAULT_PATH"
echo "$TRANSCRIPTION" | claude code

# Optional: notification
osascript -e 'display notification "Note added to Obsidian" with title "Claude"'
EOF

chmod +x ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh
```

Configure SuperWhisper to run this script after each transcription.

## 📖 How It Works

### Automatic Cataloging Rules

Claude analyzes the dictated content and applies these rules:

#### 🔲 Tasks
**Trigger:** "need to", "task", "to do", "remind me", "by", "due", "deadline"

**Action:** Adds task to today's note in `Daily Journal/YYYY-MM-DD.md`

**Format:** `- [ ] description 📅 YYYY-MM-DD`

#### 📔 Journal / Thoughts
**Trigger:** "today I", "I feel", "reflection", "thought", "journal", "diary"

**Action:** Adds to the Notes section of the day

#### 📁 Projects
**Trigger:** "project", "idea for", "for the project"

**Action:** Creates/updates file in `Projects/ProjectName.md`

**Note:** Tasks related to projects still go in the Daily Journal (not duplicated)

#### 📝 General Notes
**Trigger:** Everything else

**Action:** Adds to the current day's Notes

### Special Command: Meetings

When you say **"update meetings"**, Claude:
1. Reads the macOS Calendar
2. Extracts all today's meetings
3. Creates/updates the `Meetings Today.md` file

## 🎨 Daily Note Template

Daily notes follow this format:

```markdown
# YYYY-MM-DD

## Task
- [ ] Task to complete 📅 YYYY-MM-DD

## Meetings
- HH:MM | Meeting name

## Note
- Various annotations
- Thoughts
- Reflections

## Journal
Personal diary of the day
```

## 🔧 Customization

### Modify Cataloging Rules

Edit the `CLAUDE.md` file to change how Claude organizes notes:

```markdown
### Your New Category
If contains: "keyword1", "keyword2"
→ Action to perform
→ Specific format
```

### Add New Folders

Add folders to the vault and document in `CLAUDE.md`:

```markdown
## Vault Structure
- `Daily Journal/` - Daily notes
- `YourNewFolder/` - Description
```

### Change SuperWhisper Shortcut

Modify the shortcut in SuperWhisper → Preferences → Hotkey

## 🤝 Recommended Workflow

1. **Press `Cmd+Shift+Space`** (or your shortcut)
2. **Dictate your note**
3. **SuperWhisper transcribes** and sends to Claude
4. **Claude analyzes and catalogs** automatically
5. **Receive confirmation** of where the note was saved

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Claude doesn't respond
- Verify Claude Code is installed: `claude-code --version`
- Check you're in the vault: `cd /path/to/vault`
- Verify `CLAUDE.md` exists in the root

### SuperWhisper doesn't execute the script
- Check permissions: `chmod +x ~/bin/whisper-to-claude.sh`
- Verify the path in SuperWhisper Settings
- Check SuperWhisper logs

### Notes aren't cataloged correctly
- Verify folders exist (`Daily Journal/`, `Projects/`, etc.)
- Check that the `CLAUDE.md` file is updated
- Try dictating more explicitly ("task: do X" instead of "do X")

### Meetings don't update
- Verify Calendar permissions: System Settings → Privacy → Automation
- Make sure the script has calendar access

## 📝 Limitations

- **macOS only**: Calendar integration uses AppleScript
- **Language-specific**: Optimized for Italian / English triggers (but customizable)
- **Internet connection**: Claude Code requires connection to work

## 🔮 Future Ideas

- [ ] AI-powered semantic search in notes
- [ ] Google Calendar integration
- [ ] Customizable templates per note type
- [ ] Automatic weekly summary export

## 📄 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and share!

## 🙏 Credits

- **Medium Article** - [sonnyhuynhb](https://sonnyhuynhb.medium.com/i-built-an-ai-powered-second-brain-with-obsidian-claude-code-heres-how-b70e28100099)
- **Obsidian** - [obsidian.md](https://obsidian.md/)
- **SuperWhisper** - [superwhisper.com](https://superwhisper.com/)
- **Claude** - [claude.ai](https://claude.ai/)

**Made with 🎙️ by Graziana**
